# Module 15: Handling Requests in ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

# Lab: Handling Requests in ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

Virtual Machine: **20486B-SEA-DEV11**

User Name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

  >**Note:** In Hyper-V Manager, start the **MSL-TMG1** virtual machine if it is not already running.

Before initiating this lab, perform the following steps:

1. Apply the snapshot of the virtual machine, **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, that was taken after completing the lab in module 13.
2. Navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod13\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then copy the **Web.config** file.
3. Navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod15\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then paste the **Web.config** file.

### Exercise 1: Creating a SignalR Hub

#### Task 1: Install SignalR.

1. In the result pane of the Hyper-V Manager console, in the **Name** list of the **Virtual Machines** area, right-click **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, and then click **Connect**.

2. To sign in to **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, click the **Ctrl+Alt+Delete** button.
3. In the **User name** box, type **Admin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click the **Forward** button.
4. On the Windows 8 Start screen, click **Desktop**.
5. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
6. In the **Libraries** window, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod15\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then double-click **PhotoSharingApplication.sln**.
7. Enable the **Allow NuGet to download missing packages during build** option by performing the following steps:

   a. On the **TOOLS** menu of the Microsoft Visual Studio window, click **Options**.  
   b. In the navigation pane of the **Options** dialog box, click **Package Manager**.  
   c. Under the Package Restore section, select the **Allow NuGet to download missing packages during build** check box, and then click **OK**.
8. On the **BUILD** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click Build Solution.
9. On the **Tools** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **Library Package Manager**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.
10. In the **Package Manager Console** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
		Install-Package Microsoft.AspNet.SignalR -Version 1.0.0-rc2 -Pre
```
11. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, under **PhotoSharingApplication**, expand **References**.

  >**Note:** The NuGet package added three **Microsoft.aspnet.SignalR** namespaces to the project references.

12. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **PhotoSharingApplication**, expand **Scripts**.

  >**Note:** The NuGet package added five **jquery** scripts, including two **signalR** scripts, to the **Scripts** folder.

#### Task 2: Create a Hub class.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **PhotoSharingApplication**, point to **Add**, and then click **Class**.

2. In the **Name** box of the **Add New Item - PhotoSharingApplication** dialog box, type **ChatHub.cs**, and then click **Add**.
3. In the ChatHub.cs code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
		using System.Collections.Generic;
        using System.Linq;
```
4. In the ChatHub.cs code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		using System.Web;
```
5. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		using System.Threading.Tasks;
        using Microsoft.AspNet.SignalR;
```
6. In the ChatHub.cs code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		public class ChatHub
```
7. In the ChatHub.cs code window, replace the located code with the following code.

  ```cs
		public class ChatHub : Hub
```
8. In the **ChatHub** class code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
  		public Task Join(int photoId)
  		{
  		}
```
9. In the **Join** method code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
		return Groups.Add(Context.ConnectionId, "Photo" + photoId);
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the **Join** method code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		public Task Send(string username, int photoId, string message)
        {
        }
```
11. In the **Send** method code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
		string groupName = "Photo" + photoId;
```
12. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		return Clients.Group(groupName).addMessage(username, message);
```
13. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Configure SignalR routes.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, click **Global.asax**.

2. In the Global.asax code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		using System.Data.Entity;
```
3. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		using Microsoft.AspNet.SignalR;
```
4. In the Global.asax code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		AreaRegistration.RegisterAllAreas();
```
5. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		RouteTable.Routes.MapHubs();
```
6. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

  >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have successfully installed SignalR in an MVC 4 web application, configured routes for SignalR, and created a hub to receive and forward simple text messages.

### Exercise 2: Creating a Photo Chat View

#### Task 1: Create a chat action and view.

1. In the **Solution Explore** pane, expand **Controllers**, and then click **PhotoController.cs**.

2. In the PhotoController.cs code window, place the cursor in the **PhotoController** class, but outside any action method code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		[Authorize]
        public ActionResult Chat(int id)
        {
        }
```
3. Place the cursor within the **Chat** action code block, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
		Photo photo = context.FindPhotoById(id);
```
4. In the **Chat** action code block, place the cursor at the end of the code you just added, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
		if (photo == null) {
            return HttpNotFound();
        }
```
5. In the **Chat** action code block, place the cursor at the end of the code you just added, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
		return View("Chat", photo);
```
6. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand **Views**, right-click **Photo**, point to **Add**, and then click **Existing Item**.
7. In the **Add Existing Item – PhotoSharingApplication** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\ Labfiles\Mod15\Chat View**, click **Chat.cshtml**, and then click **Add**.
8. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Link to the chat view.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **Photo**, click **Display.cshtml**.

2. In the Display.cshtml code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		<div id="addtofavorites">
           @Ajax.ActionLink("Add this photo to your favorites",
              "AddFavorite",
              "Photo",
              new { PhotoID = Model.PhotoID },
              new AjaxOptions {
              UpdateTargetId = "addtofavorites",
              HttpMethod = "GET",
              InsertionMode = InsertionMode.Replace
           })
        </div>
```
3. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		<div id="chataboutthisphoto">
        </div>
```
4. Place the cursor within the **DIV** element code block you just added, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		@Html.ActionLink("Chat about this photo", "Chat", new { id = Model.PhotoID })
```
5. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
6. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, in the **Latest Photos** section, click the **Display** link corresponding to the image of your choice.
7. On the **Sample Photo** page, click the **Chat about this photo** link, and then note that the sign-in page appears.
8. In the **User name** box of the sign-in page, type **David Johnson**.
9. In the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd2**, and then click **Log in**.

  >**Note:** If an exception appears when you sign in, you need to replace the connection string in the Web.config file from the PhotoAppServices project. Also, in the connection string, you need to replace **{your\_password\_here}** with **Pa$$w0rd**.

10. On the **Chat** page, in the message box, type **Test message**, and then click **Send**.

  >**Note:** The message is not sent because the SignalR scripts are not yet written.

11. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 3: Link to JScript files.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **Photo**, click **Chat.cshtml**.

2. In the Chat.cshtml code window, place the cursor at the end of the view file, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		<script type="text/javascript">
        </script>
```
3. Place the cursor in the **SCRIPT** element code block you just added, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
		var username = '@User.Identity.Name';
```
4. In the **SCRIPT** element, place the cursor at the end of the **username** variable, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		var photoid = @Model.PhotoID
```
5. Place the cursor at the end of the **SCRIPT** element code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		<script type="text/javascript" src=""></script>
```
6. Place the cursor within the **src** attribute, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		@Url.Content("~/Scripts/jquery.signalR-1.0.1.js")
```
  >**Note:** Ensure that the name of the script file you enter matches the name of the file in the **Scripts** folder.

7. Place the cursor at the end of the **SCRIPT** element code block that you just added, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		<script type="text/javascript" src=""></script>
```
8. Place the cursor within the **src** attribute, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		@Url.Content("~/signalr/hubs")
```
9. Place the cursor at the end of the **SCRIPT** element code block that you just added, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		<script type="text/javascript" src=""></script>
```
10. Place the cursor within the **src** attribute, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		@Url.Content("~/Scripts/ChatRoom.js")
```
11. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 4: Script SignalR connections.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **Scripts**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Item**.

2. In the **Search Installed Templates** box of the **Add New Item – PhotoSharingApplication** dialog box, type **JavaScript**.
3. In the **Add New Item – PhotoSharingApplication** dialog box, click **JavaScript File**, and then click **Add**.
4. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under Scripts, right-click **JavaScript1.js**, and then click **Rename**.
5. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under Scripts, rename **JavaScript1.js** as **ChatRoom.js**, and then press Enter.
6. In the ChatRoom.js code window, type the following code.

  ```cs
		$(function() {
        });
```
7. Place the cursor within the anonymous function code block you just added, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		var chat = $.connection.chatHub;
```
8. Place the cursor at the end of the **chat** variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		$('#chat-message').focus();
```
9. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		$.connection.hub.start().done(function(){
        });
```
10. Place the cursor within the anonymous function you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		chat.server.join(photoid).done(function() {
        });
```
11. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 5: Script SignalR messages.

1. In the **ChatRoom.js** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		var chat = $.connection.chatHub;
```
2. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		chat.client.addMessage = function(name, message) {
        };
```
3. Place the cursor within the anonymous function code block you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		var encodedName = $('<div />').text(name).html();
```
4. Place the cursor at the end of the **encodedName** variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		var encodedMessage = $('<div />').text(message).html();
```
5. Place the cursor at the end of the **encodedMessage** variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		var listItem = '<li>' + encodedName + ': ' + encodedMessage + '</li>';
```
6. Place the cursor at the end of the **listItem** variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		$('#discussion').append(listItem);
```
7. In the ChatRoom.js code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
		chat.server.join(photoid).done(function() {
        });
```
8. Place the cursor within the located code, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		$('#sendmessage').click(function() {
        });
```
9. Place the cursor within the anonymous function you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		chat.server.send(username, photoid, $('#chat-message').val());
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
		$('#chat-message').val('').focus();
```
11. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 6: Test the chat room.

1. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

2. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, click the **Log In** link.
3. In the **User name** box of the sign-in page, type **David Johnson**.
4. In the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd2**, and then click **Log in**.
5. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to **Sample Photo 1**.
6. On the **Sample Photo 1** page, click the **Chat about this photo** link.
7. On the **Chat** page, in the message box, type **Test message**, and then click **Send**.

  >**Note:** The script sends the message to the hub that returns the message to all the browsers that are currently connected to the group of this photo.

8. On the taskbar, right-click the **Internet Explorer** icon, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
9. In the Address bar of the Internet Explorer window, type **http://localhost:** _&lt;portnumber&gt;_ **/**, and then press Enter.
10. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, click the **Log off** link.
11. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, click the **Register** link.
12. In the **User name** box of the **Register** page, type **Mark Steele**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**.
13. In the **Confirm password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click **Register**.
14. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to **Sample Photo 1**.
15. On the **Sample Photo 1** page, click the **Chat about this photo** link.

  >**Note:** If **David Johnson** appears as the user name instead of **Mark Steele**, click the **Refresh** button before proceeding to the next step.

16. On the **Chat** page, in the message box, type **Second test message**, and then click **Send**.
17. On the taskbar, point to the **Internet Explorer** icon, and then click the **David Johnson Chat – Windows Internet Explorer** icon.

  >**Note:** The new message from **Mark Steele** appears because both users joined the chat for **Sample Photo 1**.  

18. On the **Chat** page, in the message box, type **Third test message**, and then click **Send**.
19. On the taskbar, point to the **Internet Explorer** icon, and then click the **Mark Steele Chat** - **Windows Internet Explorer**.

  >**Note:** The new message appears in Internet Explorer.

20. In the Internet Explorer windows, click the **Close** button.
21. In the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.

  >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created MVC controller actions and views to display a user interface for the SignalR functionality, linked to the JScript libraries that SignalR requires, and used JScript to connect to a SignalR hub and send messages.
  
©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
