# Module 13: Using Windows Azure Web Services in ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

# Lab: Using Microsoft Azure Web Services in ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

### Exercise 1: Accessing Microsoft Azure and Bing Maps

#### Task 1: Install the Windows Azure SDK.

1. In the result pane of the **Hyper-V Manager** console, in the **Name** list of the **Virtual Machines** area, right-click **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, and then click **Connect**.
2. To sign in to **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, click **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**.
3. In the **User name** text box, type **Admin**, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click the **Forward** button.
4. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
5. In the **File Explorer** window, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Windows Azure SDK Installation**.
6. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **WindowsAzureAuthoringTools-x64.msi** Windows Installer Package.
7. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
8. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
9. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **WindowsAzureEmulator-x64.msi** application.
10. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
11. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
12. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **WindowsAzureLibsForNet-x64.msi** Windows Installer Package.
13. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
14. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
15. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **WindowsAzureTools.VS110.exe** application.
16. Select **I accept the license terms and conditions**, and then click **Install**.
17. After the installation completes, click **Close**.

#### Task 2: Create a Bing Maps developer account.

1. Switch to the **Internet Explorer** window.
2. In the Address bar, type **https://www.bingmapsportal.com**, and then click **Go to**.
3. On the **Home – Bing maps | Dev Center** page, click the **Sign in** link.
4. On the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page, click the **Create one!** link.
5. On the **Create an account page**, set the **User name** to **&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;**, set the **Password** to **&lt;Your Windows Live account password&gt;**, and then click **Create account**.
6. In case the email address has to be verified, verify the email.
7. Open a new **Internet Explorer** window.
8. In the Address bar of Internet Explorer, type **https://www.bingmapsportal.com**, and then click **Go to**.
9. On the **Home – Bing maps | Dev Center** page, click the **Sign in** link.
10. On the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page, in the **Email or phone** text box, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_ and in the **Password** text box, type &lt;_Your Windows Live account password_&gt;.
11. On the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page, select **Keep me signed in**, and then click **Sign in**.
12. In case the question **Do you want to use the account**  **&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;** for your new Bing Maps account? **appears on the page that opens, click** Yes**.
13. On the **Account details** page, in the **Account name** text box, type _&lt;Your account name&gt;_.
14. In the **Email Address** text box, type &lt;_Your email address_&gt;.
15. Select the **I agree to the Bing Maps Platform APIs Terms of Use (TOU)** check box, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 3: Create a Bing Maps key.

1. On the **My account** menu, click **My Keys**.
2. In the **Application name** text box of the **Create key - Bing maps | Dev Center** page, type **Photo Sharing Application**, in the **Key Type** text box, ensure that the value is **Basic**, in the **Application type** text box, ensure that the value is **Public website**, and then click **Create**.

   >**Note:** On the **My Keys - Bing maps | Dev Center** page, the message, **Key created successfully** displays.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully registered an application to access the Bing Maps API.

### Exercise 2: Creating a WCF Service for Microsoft Azure

#### Task 1: Add a new Windows Azure Cloud Service project to the web application.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
2. In the **Libraries** window, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then double-click **PhotoSharingApplication.sln**.
3. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **Add**, and then click **New Project**.
4. In the navigation pane of the **Add New Project** dialog box, under **Installed**, expand **Visual C#**, and then click **Cloud**.
5. In the **Add New Project** dialog box, click **Windows Azure Cloud Service**, in the **Name** text box, type **LocationChecker** , and then click **OK**.
6. In the **.NET Framework 4.5 roles** box of the **New Windows Azure Cloud Service** dialog box, click **WCF Service Web Role**, click the **Right Arrow** button, and then click **OK**.
7. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **WCFServiceWebRole1**, and then click **Rename**.
8. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **WCFServiceWebRole1** as **LocationCheckerWebRole**, and then press Enter.
9. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **IService1.cs**, and then click **Rename**.
10. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **IService1.cs** as **ILocationCheckerService.cs**, and then press Enter.
11. In the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box, click **Yes**.
12. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **Service1.svc**, and then click **Rename**.
13. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **Service1.svc** as **LocationCheckerService.svc**, and then press Enter.
14. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **LocationCheckerService.svc**, double-click **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs**.
15. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        namespace WCFServiceWebRole1
```
16. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, right-click the located code, point to **Refactor**, and then click **Rename**.
17. In the **New name** text box of the **Rename** dialog box, type **LocationCheckerWebRole**, ensure that the **Preview reference changes** check box is selected, and then click **OK**.
18. In the **Preview Changes – Rename** dialog box, click **Apply**.
19. In the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box, click **Yes**.
20. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        public class Service1 : ILocationCheckerService
```
21. In the located code, select the text **Service1**, right-click **Service1**, point to **Refactor**, and then click **Rename**.
22. In the **New name** text box of the **Rename** dialog box, type **LocationCheckerService**, ensure that the **Preview reference changes** check box is selected, and then click **OK**.
23. In the **Preview Changes – Rename** dialog box, click **Apply**.
24. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **LocationChecker**, double-click **ServiceDefinition.csdef**.
25. In the **ServiceDefinition.csdef** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        <WebRole name="LocationCheckerWebRole" vmsize="Small">
```
26. In the **ServiceDefinition.csdef** code window, replace the located code with the following code.

  ```cs
        <WebRole name="LocationCheckerWebRole" vmsize="ExtraSmall">
```
27. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Micorosft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Create the Location Checker Service interface.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **LocationCheckerWebRole**, double-click **ILocationCheckerService.cs**
2. In the **ILocationCheckerService.cs** code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       [OperationContract]
       string GetData(int value);
        [OperationContract]
       CompositeType GetDataUsingDataContract(CompositeType composite);
```
3. Place the cursor in the **ILocationCheckerService** interface code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       [OperationContract]
       string GetLocation(string address);
```
4. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Write the Location Checker service.

1. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       public string GetData(int value)
       {
          return string.Format("You entered: {0}", value);
       }
```
2. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       public CompositeType GetDataUsingDataContract(CompositeType composite)
       {
          if (composite == null)
          {
             throw new ArgumentNullException("composite");
          }
          if (composite.BoolValue)
          {
             composite.StringValue += "Suffix";
          }
       return composite;
       }
```
3. Place the cursor in the **LocationCheckerService** class code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public string GetLocation(string address)
       {
       }
```
4. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
5. In the **PhotoSharingApplication** window, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Service Code**, and then double-click **Geocoding Usings.txt**.
6. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Usings.txt - Notepad** window, click **Select All**.
7. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Usings.txt- Notepad** window, click **Copy**.
8. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
9. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       using syste.Text;
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then click **Paste**.
11. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
12. In the **PhotoSharingApplication** window, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Service Code**, and then double-click **Geocoding Code.txt**.
13. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Code.txt - Notepad** window, click **Select All**.
14. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Code.txt- Notepad** window, click **Copy**.
15. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
16. Place the cursor at the beginning of the **GetLocation** method, and then press Enter.
17. On the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
18. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
19. In the **PhotoSharingApplication** window, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Service Code**, and then double-click **Geocoding Classes.txt**.
20. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Classes.txt - Notepad** window, click **Select All**.
21. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Classes.txt- Notepad** window, click **Copy**.
22. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
23. Place the cursor at the end of the **LocationCheckerService** class, and then press Enter.
24. On the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
25. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
26. In the lower section of the **Create Key - Bing maps |Dev Center** page, select the key corresponding to **Photo Sharing Application**, right-click the key, and then click **Copy**.
27. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
28. In the **GetLocation** method of the **LocationCheckerService** class, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        string key = "";
```
29. Place the cursor within the key variable, and then on the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
30. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 4: Publish the service in Microsoft Azure.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, collapse **LocationCheckerWebRole**, right-click **LocationChecker**, and then click **Package**.
2. In the **Service Configuration** box of the **Package Windows Azure Application** dialog box, ensure that in **Service configuration**, the **Cloud** option is selected, in **Build Configuration**, select the **Debug** option, and then click **Package**.

   >**Note:** Visual Studio creates the **.cspkg** file and the **.cscfg** file for the service and displays them in the File Explorer window.

3. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
4. In the **Internet Explorer** window, click the **New Tab** button.
5. In the Address bar of the **Internet Explorer** window, type **https://manage.windowsazure.com**, and then press **Enter**.
6. If a page appears, prompting you to enter your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

7. In the left pane of the **Microsoft Azure** window, click **CLOUD SERVICES**.
8. In the lower pane of the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window, click **NEW**, and then click **CUSTOM CREATE**.
9. In the **URL** text box of the **Create a cloud service** dialog box, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_ **LocationService**, in the **REGION** box, click _&lt;Choose a location near you&gt;_, and then click **Complete** (the V icon).
10. In the **NAME** column of the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window, click _&lt;Your Live Account Name&gt;_ **LocationService**.
11. On the _&lt;Your Live Account Name&gt;_ **locationservice** page, click **INSTANCES**, click **STAGING**, and then click **UPLOAD A New staging deployment**.
12. In the **DEPLOYMENT NAME** text box of the **Upload a package** dialog box, type **LocationChecker**, and then in the **PACKAGE** text box, click **FROM LOCAL**.
13. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication\LocationChecker\bin\Debug\app.publish**, click **LocationChecker.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.
14. In the **CONFIGURATION** box of the **Upload a package** dialog box, click **FROM LOCAL**.
15. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.
16. In the **Upload a package** dialog box, select the **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box, and then click **OK** (the V icon).

    >**Note:** It may take several minutes to fully create and deploy the service. Ensure the process is complete before you proceed to Exercise 3.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a WCF cloud service and published theservice in Microsoft Azure.

### Exercise 3: Calling a Web Service from Controller Action

#### Task 1: Add a service reference to the Photo Sharing application.

1. On the taskbar, click the **Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
2. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, collapse **LocationChecker**, and then expand **PhotoSharingApplication**.
3. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **PhotoSharingApplication**, right-click **References**, and then click **Add Service Reference**.
4. On the taskbar, point to the **Internet Explorer** icon, and then click the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window.
5. In the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window, click** DASHBOARD**.
6. In the **SITE URL** section of the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window, click the link provided.
7. In the result window, click the **LocationCheckerService.svc** link.
8. In the Address bar of the result window, right-click the URL, and then click **Copy**.
9. Switch to **Microsoft Visual Studio**.
10. In the **Address** text box of the **Add Service Reference** dialog box, right-click anywhere, and then click **Paste**.
11. In the **Add Service Reference** dialog box, click **Go**.
12. In the **Namespace** text box of the **Add Service Reference** dialog box, type **GeocodeService**, and then click **OK**.
13. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, expand **Controllers**, and then double-click **PhotoController.cs**.
14. In the **PhotoController.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        using PhotoSharingApplication.Models;
```
15. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        using PhotoSharingApplication.GeocodeService;
```
16. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Call the WCF service from the photo create action.

1. In the **PhotoController.cs** code window, place the cursor at the end of the **PhotoController** class but outside any action code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       private string CheckLocation(string location)
       {
       }
```
2. In the **CheckLocation** method code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       LocationCheckerServiceClient client = null;
```
3. Place the cursor at the end of the **client** variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       string response = "";
```
4. Place the cursor at the end of the response variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       try
       {
       }
       catch (Exception e)
       {
       }
```
5. In the **try** code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       client = new LocationCheckerServiceClient();
```
6. Place the cursor at the end of the **client** variable you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       response = client.GetLocation(location);
```
7. In the **catch** code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       response = "Error: " + e.Message;
```
8. Place the cursor after the **catch** code block but in the **CheckLocation** method, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       return response;
```
9. In the **PhotoController.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       [Authorize]
       [HttpPost]
       public ActionResult Create(Photo photo, HttpPostedFileBase image)
       {
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

        if (photo.Location != "")
        {
        }

11. In the **if** code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
        string stringLongLat = CheckLocation(photo.Location);
```
12. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just entered, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        if (stringLongLat.StartsWith("Success"))
        {
        }
```
13. In the **if** statement code block that you just created, type the following code.

  ```cs
        char[] splitChars = {':'};
```
14. Place the cursor at the end of the code that you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        string[] coordinates = stringLongLat.Split(splitChars);
```
15. Place the cursor at the end of the code that you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        photo.Latitude = coordinates[1];
        photo.Longitude = coordinates[2];
```
   >**Note:** Remember that the array is zero-based.

16. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Configure the Services Database connection string.

1. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
2. In the left pane of the **Microsoft Azure Portal** window, click **SQL Databases**.
3. In the **NAME** column of the **SQL Databases – Microsoft Azure** window, click **PhotoAppServices**.
4. In the result window, click **DASHBOARD**.
5. Under **quick glance**, click **Show connection strings**.
6. Select all the text in the **ADO.NET** box.
7. Right-click the selected code, and then click **Copy**.
8. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
9. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **web.config**.
10. In the **Web.config** code window, select the **connectionString** value for the **AzureAppServices** connection string.
11. Right-click the selected code, and then click **Paste**.
12. In the pasted content, locate the text **{your_password_here}** ,and then replace it with **Pa$$w0rd**.
13. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 4: Test the Location Checker service.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **PhotoSharingApplication** , and then click **Set as Startup Project**.
2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

    >**Note:** If you get an error while debugging, reopen the **PhotoSharingApplication.sln** file, and run the web application in debugging mode.

3. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works** page, click **Log In**.
4. In the **User name** text box of the Login page, type **David Johnson**, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd2**, and then click **Log In**.
5. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works** page, click **Add a Photo**.
6. In the **Title** text box of the **Create New Photo** page, type **Testing Locations**, and then in the **Picture** text box, click **Browse**.
7. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **Allfiles (D):\Labfiles\Mod13\Sample Photos**, click **Beach.jpg**, and then click **Open**.
8. In the **Location** text box of the **Create New Photo** page, type **Florence, OR**, and then click **Create**.
9. On the **All Photos** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to the **Testing Locations** photo.
10. On the **Testing Locations** page, note that the **Latitude** and **Longitude** values are displayed.

    >**Note:** The latitude and longitude values are taken from the Location Checker WCF service.

11. In the **Internet Explorer** window, click **Close**.
12. In the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Close**.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully added a service reference for a Windows Azure WCF service to a .NET Framework application. Also, you should be able to call a WCF service from an MVC controller action.
