# Module 1: Exploring ASP.NET MVC 4

# Lab: Exploring ASP.NET MVC 4

### Lab Setup

Virtual Machine: **20486B-SEA-DEV11**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

**Note** : In Hyper-V Manager, start the **MSL-TMG1** virtual machine if it is not already running.

### Exercise 1: Exploring a Photo Sharing Application

#### Task 1: Register a user account.

1. In the result pane of the Hyper-V Manager console, in the **Name** list of the **Virtual Machines** area, right-click **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, and then click **Connect**.
2. To log on to **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, click the **Ctrl+Alt+Delete** button.
3. In the **User name** box, type **Admin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click the **Forward** button.
4. On the Windows 8 Start screen, click **Visual Studio 2012**.
5. On the taskbar, right-click the **Start Page - Microsoft Visual Studio** icon, and then click **Pin this program to taskbar**.
6. On the **FILE** menu of the **Start Page – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
7. In the **Open Project** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod01\Labfiles\PhotoSharingSample**, click **PhotoSharingSample.sln**, and then click **Open**.
8. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingSample – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Without Debugging**.
9. On the **Home** page of the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/window**, in the upper-right corner, click **Register**.

   >**Note:** In the **http://localhost:&lt;yourportnumber&gt;/window**, if a notification bar appears, click **Don&#39;t show this message box again.**

10. On the **Register** page, in the **User name** box, type _&lt;A user name of your choice&gt;._
11. On the **Register** page, in the **Password** box, type _&lt;A__password of your choice&gt;_, in the **Confirm password** box, type _&lt;A password of your choice&gt;_, and then click **Register**.

#### Task 2: Upload and explore photos.

1. On the **Home** page of the **http://localhost:&lt;yourportnumber&gt;/window, click **All Photos**.
2. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Details** link corresponding to the &quot;Orchard&quot; image.
3. On the **Photo: Orchard** page, in the **Subject** box, type **Just a Test Comment**.
4. In the **Body** box, type **This is a Sample**, and then click **Create**.

   >**Note:** The comment you have added appears in the Comments section.

5. On the **Photo: Orchard** page of the **http://localhost:&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/photo/2** window, click **Add a Photo**.
6. On the **Create New Photo** page, in the **Title** box, type **Fall Fungi**.
7. In the **Upload new Picture** box, click **Browse**.
8. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod01\Labfiles\Pictures**, click **fungi.JPG**, and then click **Open**.
9. In the **Description** box, type **Sample Text**, and then click **Create**.
10. On the **Photo Index** page, verify that the newly added photo is displayed.
11. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Details** link corresponding to the &quot;Fall Fungi&quot; image.
12. On the **Photo: Fall Fungi** page, note that the description provided for the photo is updated.

#### Task 3: Use slideshows.

1. On the **Photo: Fall Fungi** page of the **http://localhost:&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/photo/6** window, click the **Slideshow** tab.

   >**Note:** You can view all the images on the **Photo Index** page. Verify that all the images in the gallery are displayed in the slideshow.

2. On the **SlideShow** page of the **http://localhost:&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/Photo/SlideShow** window, click **All Photos**.
3. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Details** link corresponding to the &quot;Fall Fungi&quot; image.
4. On the **Photo: Fall Fungi** page, click the **Add to favorites** link.

   >**Note:** Verify that the message, &quot;The picture has been added to your favorites&quot;, is displayed.

5. At the lower-left corner of the **Photo: Fall Fungi** page, click the **Back to List** link.
6. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Details** link corresponding to the &quot;Orchard&quot; image.
7. On the **Photo: Orchard** page, click the **Add to favorites** link.

   >**Note:** Verify that the message, &quot;The picture has been added to your favorites&quot;, is displayed.

8. At the lower-left corner of the **Photo: Orchard** page, click the **Back to List** link.
9. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Details** link corresponding to the &quot;Flower&quot; image.
10. On the **Photo: Flower** page, click the **Add to favorites** link.

    >**Note:** Verify that the message, &quot;The picture has been added to your favorites&quot;, is displayed.

11. On the **Photo: Flower** page of the **http://localhost:&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/photo/1** window, click **Favorites**.

    >**Note:** Verify that all the images that you have added as favorites are displayed in the slideshow.

#### Task 4: Test the authorization.

1. In the upper-right corner of the **SlideShow** page, click the **Log Off** link.

   >**Note:** Before clicking **All Photos**, on the **Privacy** tab of the **Internet Options** dialog box, click **Clear Sites**, and then click **OK**.

   After clearing the sites, press F5, or click the **Refresh** button, before you click **All Photos**.

2. On the **Home** page, click **All Photos**.
3. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Details** link corresponding to the &quot;Fall Fungi&quot; image.
4. On the **Photo: Fall Fungi** page, in the Comments section, note that the message, &quot;To comment you must log in&quot;, is displayed.
5. On the **Photo: Fall Fungi** page, click **All Photos**.
6. On the **Photo Index** page, click the **Create New** link.

   >**Note:** Ensure that you are not able to view your user name in the web application. If you are able to view your user name, press F5 or click the **Refresh** button, before proceeding to the next step.

   >**Note:** You are directed to the **Logon** page, and prompted to enter the logon credentials.

7. In the Windows Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.
8. In the **PhotoSharingSample – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will be able to understand the functionality of a photo sharing application, and implement the required application structure in the Adventure Works photo sharing application.

### Exercise 2: Exploring a Web Pages Application

#### Task 1: Create a Web Pages application.

1. On the Windows 8 Start screen, click **Visual Studio 2012**.
2. On the **FILE** menu of the **Start Page - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **New**, and then click **Web Site**.
3. In the navigation pane of the **New Web Site** dialog box, expand **Installed**, expand **Templates**, and then click **Visual C#**.
4. In the result pane of the **New Web Site** dialog box, click **ASP.NET Web Site (Razor v2)**, and then click **OK**.
5. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WebSite1 – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
6. On the home page of the **http://localhost:&lt;_yourportnumber&gt;/window, click **Contact** to review its contents.
7. In the Windows Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Explore the application structure.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WebSite1(1) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Web.config**.
2. In the Web.config code window, locate the **&lt;DbProviderFactories&gt;** element, and then locate the **&lt;add&gt;** element.
3. In the **&lt;add&gt;** element, note that the value of the **description** attribute is **.NET Framework Data Provider for Microsoft SQL Server Compact**.
4. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WebSite1(1) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Default.cshtml**.
5. In the Default.cshtml code window, note that the value of Layout is **~/_SiteLayout.cshtml**.
6. In the Solution Explorer pane, click **Contact.cshtml**.
7. In the Contact.cshtml code window, note that the value of Layout is **~/_SiteLayout.cshtml**.

   >**Note:** This indicates that the Default.cshtml and the Contact.cshtml files use the same layout file, **~/_SiteLayout.cshtml**.

8. In the Contact.cshtml code window, examine the Razor code and note that there are no links to .css files.
9. In the Solution Explorer pane, click **_SiteLayout.cshtml**.
10. In the \_SiteLayout.cshtml code window, in the **HEAD** element, note that there is a link to **~/Content/Site.css**.
11. In the Solution Explorer pane, expand **Content**, and then click **Site.css**.
12. In the Site.css code window, verify the style sheet for _SiteLayout.cshtml.

#### Task 3: Add simple functionality.

1. In the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in the Solution Explorer pane, right-click **WebSite1(1)**, point to **Add**, and then click **Add New Item**.
2. In the **Add New Item – WebSite1(1)** dialog box, click **Web Page (Razor v2)**.
3. In the **Name** box of the **Add New Item – WebSite1(1)** dialog box, type **TestPage.cshtml**, and then click **Add**.
4. In the TestPage.cshtml code window of the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in the **BODY** element, type the following code.

  ```cs
       <h1>This is a Test Page</h1>
```
5. On the **FILE** menu of the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
6. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Default.cshtml**.
7. In the Default.cshtml code window, in the **P** element, type the following code.

  ```cs
       <a href="~/TestPage.cshtml">
         Test Page
       </a>
```
8. On the **FILE** menu of the  **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
9. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
10. In the **http://localhost:&lt;_yourportnumber_&gt;/Default.cshtml** window, click **Test Page** to view its contents.

    >**Note:** The text, &quot;This is a Test Page&quot;, is displayed on the webpage that you just added.

11. In the Windows Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 4: Apply the site layout.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WebSite1(1) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **TestPage.cshtml**.
2. In the TestPage.cshtml code window, place the mouse cursor before &lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;, and then press Enter twice.
3. In the first line of the TestPage.cshtml code window, type the following code block.

  ```cs
       @{
       }
```
4. In the Razor code block of the TestPage.cshtml code window, type the following code.

  ```cs
       Layout = "~/_SiteLayout.cshtml";
```
5. On the **FILE** menu of the  **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
6. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
7. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/TestPage.cshtml** window, note that the standard site layout and styles have been applied.
8. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/TestPage.cshtml** window, click the **Close** button.
9. In the **WebSite1(1) – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will be able to build a simple Web Pages application in Visual Studio.

### Exercise 3: Exploring a Web Forms Application

#### Task 1: Create a Web Forms application.

1. On the taskbar, click the **Start Page - Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
2. On the **FILE** menu of the **Start Page -Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.
3. In the left pane of the **New Project** dialog box, expand **Installed**, expand **Templates**, and then expand **Visual C#**.
4. Under Visual C#, click **Web**, and then, in the result pane, click **ASP.NET Web Forms Application**.
5. In the **Name** box, replace **WebApplication1** with **TestWebFormsApplication**, and then click **OK**.
6. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
7. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/Default.aspx** window, click **Contact** to review the contents.
8. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/Contact.aspx** window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Explore the application structure.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Web.config**.
2. In the Web.config code window, locate the **&lt;configuration&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** element, and then locate the **&lt;add&gt;** element.
3. In the **&lt;add&gt;** element, note that the value of the **providerName** attribute is **System.Data.SqlClient**.
4. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Default.aspx**.
5. In the first line of the Default.aspx code window, note that the value of the **MasterPageFile** attribute is **~/Site.Master**.
6. In the Solution Explorer pane, click **Contact.aspx**.
7. In the first line of the Contact.aspx code window, note that the value of the **MasterPageFile** attribute is **~/Site.Master**.

   >**Note:** The Default.aspx and Contact.aspx files are linked to the same layout file.

8. In the Contact.aspx code window, examine the code, and note that there are no links for files with a .css extension.
9. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Site.Master**.
10. In the Site.Master code window, note that the path for **BundleReference** is **~/Content/css**.
11. In the Solution Explorer pane, click **Bundle.config**.
12. In the Bundle.config code window, note that there are links to files with a .css extension.
13. In the Solution Explorer pane, expand **Content**, and then click **Site.css**.
14. In the Site.css code window, note that the style sheet for Site.Master is displayed.

#### Task 3: Add simple functionality.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **TestWebFormsApplication**, point to **Add**, and then click **Web Form**.
2. In the **Item name** box of the **Specify Name for Item** dialog box, replace **WebForm1** with **TestPage**, and then click **OK**.
3. In the Testpage.aspx code window, in the **DIV** element, type the following code.

  ```cs
       <h1>This is a Test Page</h1>
```
4. On the **FILE** menu of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
5. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Default.aspx**.
6. In the Default.aspx code window, in the **P** element, type the following code.

  ```cs
       <a href="TestPage.aspx">
         Test Page
       </a>
```
7. On the **FILE** menu of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All.**
8. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
9. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/Default.aspx** window, click the **Test Page** link to view the newly created Web Form page.

   >**Note:** The text, &quot;This is a Test Page&quot;, is displayed on the Web Form page.

10. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/TestPage.aspx** window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 4: Apply the master page.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **TestPage.aspx**.
2. In the first line of the Testpage.aspx code window, place the mouse cursor after the word, &quot;Page&quot;, press Spacebar, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       MasterPageFile="~/Site.master";
```
3. In the TestPage.aspx code window, select the code from &lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt; to &lt;/html&gt;, and then press Delete.
4. In the third line of the TestPage.aspx code window, type the following code.

  ```cs
       <asp:Content runat="server"
          ID="BodyContent"
          ContentPlaceHolderID="MainContent">
       <h1>This is a Test Page</h1>
       </asp:Content>
```
5. On the **FILE** menu of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
3. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/TestPage.aspx** window, click **Home**.
4. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/** window, click the **Test Page** link, and then note that the standard site layout and styles have been applied to the page.
5. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/TestPages.aspx** window, click the **Close** button.
6. In the **TestWebFormsApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will be able to build a simple Web Forms application in Visual Studio.

### Exercise 4: Exploring an MVC Application

#### Task 1: Create an MVC 4 application.

1. On the taskbar, click the **Start Page - Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
2. On the **FILE** menu of the **Start Page – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.
3. In the navigation pane of the **New Project** dialog box, expand **Installed**, expand **Templates**, and then expand **Visual C#**.
4. In the navigation pane of the **New Project** dialog box, under Visual C#, click **Web**, and then, in the result pane, click **ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Application**.
5. In the **Name** box, replace **MvcApplication** with **TestMVCApplication**, and then click **OK**.
6. In the Select a template section of the **New ASP.NET MVC 4 Project** dialog box, ensure that **Internet Application** is selected, and then click **OK**.
7. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
8. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/** window, click **Contact** to review the contents of the page.
9. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;yourportnumber&gt;_/Home/Contact** window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Explore the application structure.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Web.config**.
2. In the Web.config code window, locate the **&lt;configuration&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** element, and then locate the **&lt;add&gt;** element.
3. In the **&lt;add&gt;** element, note that the value for the **providerName** attribute is **System.Data.SqlClient**.
4. In the Solution Explorer pane, expand **Views**, and then click **_ViewStart.cshtml**.
5. In the \_ViewStart.cshtml code window, note that the value for Layout is **~/Views/Shared/_Layout.cshtml**.
6. In the Solution Explorer pane, under Views, expand **Home**, and then click **Contact.cshtml**.
7. In the Contact.cshtml code window, note that there are no files with the .css extension.
8. In the Solution Explorer pane, under Views, collapse **Home**, expand **Shared**, and then click **_Layout.cshtml.**
9. In the \_Layout.cshtml code window, note that there are calls to the Styles helper.
10. In the Solution Explorer pane, expand **Content**, and then click **Site.css**.
11. In the Site.css code window, note that the style sheet for _Layout.cshtml is displayed.

#### Task 3: Add simple functionality.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, expand **Home**.
2. In the Solution Explorer pane, right-click **Home**, point to **Add**, and then click **View**.
3. In the **View name** box of the **AddView** dialog box, replace **View1** with **TestPage**, clear the **Use a layout or master page** check box, and then click **Add**.
4. In the **DIV** element of the TestPage.cshtml code window, type the following code.

  ```cs
       <h1>This is a Test Page</h1>
```
5. On the toolbar, click the **Save** button.
6. In the Solution Explorer pane, expand **Controllers**, and then click **HomeController.cs**.
7. In the HomeController.cs code window, in the **HomeController** class, type the following code.

  ```cs
       public ActionResult TestPage ()
       {
          return View();
       }
```
8. On the toolbar, click the **Save** button.
9. In the Solution Explorer pane, under Home, click **Index.cshtml**.
10. In the Index.cshtml code window, in the first **P** element, type the following code.

  ```cs
        <a href="~/Home/TestPage">
          Test Page
        </a>
```
11. On the **FILE** menu of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
12. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
13. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;portnumber&gt;_/** window, click the **Test Page** link to view the newly created page.

    >**Note:** The text, &quot;This is a Test Page&quot;, is displayed on the newly created page.

14. In the **http://localhost:_&lt;portnumber&gt;_/home/TestPage** window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 4: Apply the site layout.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, expand **Views**, expand **Home**, and then click **TestPage.cshtml**.
2. In the TestPage.cshtml code window, remove the following line of code.

  ```cs
       Layout = null;
```
3. In the TestPage.cshtml code window, delete all tags, except the following.

  ```cs
       <h1>This is a Test Page</h1>
```
4. On the toolbar, click the **Save** button.
5. On the **FILE** menu of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
6. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **TestMVCApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
7. In the **http://localhost:&lt;_yourportnumber&gt;_/** window, click the **Test Page** link.
8. In the **http://localhost:&lt;_yourportnumber&gt;_/home/TestPage** window, note that the standard site layout and styles have been applied.
9. In the **http://localhost:&lt;_yourportnumber&gt;_/home/TestPage** window, click the **Close** button.
10. In the **TestMVCApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will be able to build a simple MVC application in Visual Studio.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
