# Module 14: Implementing Web APIs in ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

# Lab: Implementing APIs in ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

Virtual Machine: **20486B-SEA-DEV11**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

**Note:** In Hyper-V Manager, start the **MSL-TMG1** virtual machine if it is not already running.

Before initiating this lab, perform the following steps:

1. Apply the Snapshot of the virtual machine, **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, that was taken after completing the lab in module 13.
2. Navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod 13\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then copy the **web.config** file.
3. Navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod 14\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then paste the **web.config** file.

### Exercise 1: Adding a Web API to the Photo Sharing Application

#### Task 1: Add a Photo API controller.

1. In the result pane of the Hyper-V Manager console, in the **Name** list of the **Virtual Machines** area, right-click **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, and then click **Connect**.
2. To sign in to **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, press Ctrl+Alt+Delete.
3. In the **User name** box, type **Admin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click the **Forward** button.
4. On the Windows 8 Start screen, click **Desktop**.
5. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
6. In the **Libraries** window, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod14\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then double-click **PhotoSharingApplication.sln**.
7. Enable the **Allow NuGet to download missing packages during build** option by performing the following steps:

   a.  On the **TOOLS** menu of the Microsoft Visual Studio window, click **Options**.  
   b.  In the navigation pane of the **Options** dialog box, click **Package Manager**.  
   c.  Under the **Package Restore** section, select the **Allow NuGet to download missing packages during build** check box, and then click **OK**.
8. On the **BUILD** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click Build Solution.
9. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, under **PhotoSharingApplication**, right-click **Controllers**, point to **Add**, and then click **Controller**.
10. In the **Controller name** box of the **Add Controller** dialog box, type **PhotoApiController**.
11. In the **Template** list, click **Empty API controller**, and then click **Add**.
12. In the PhotoApiController.cs code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        using System.Web.Http;
```
13. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        using PhotoSharingApplication.Models;
```
14. Place the cursor within the **PhotoApiController** class code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        private IPhotoSharingContext context = new PhotoSharingContext();
```
15. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just added, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        public IEnumerable<Photo> GetAllPhotos()
        {
        }
```
16. Place the cursor within the **GetAllPhotos** action code block you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        return context.Photos.AsEnumerable();
```
17. Place the cursor in the **PhotoApiController** class, but outside any action code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        public Photo GetPhotoById(int id)
        {
        }
```
18. Place the cursor within the **GetPhotoById** action code block you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        Photo photo = context.FindPhotoById(id);
```
19. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just added, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        if (photo == null)
        {
           throw new HttpResponseException(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
        }
```
20. Place the cursor at the end of the **if** statement code block you just created, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        return photo;
```
21. Place the cursor in the **PhotoApiController** class, but outside any action code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        public Photo GetPhotoByTitle(string title)
        {
        }
```
22. Place the cursor within the **GetPhotoByTitle** action code block you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        Photo photo = context.FindPhotoByTitle(title);
```
23. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just added, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        if (photo == null)
        {
           throw new HttpResponseException(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
        }
```
24. Place the cursor at the end of the **if** statement code block you just created, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        return photo;
```
25. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Configure API routes.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand **App_Start**, and then double-click **WebApiConfig.cs**.
2. In the WebApiConfig.cs code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
          name: "DefaultApi",
          routeTemplate: "api/{controller}/{id}",
          defaults: new { id = RouteParameter.Optional }
       );
```
3. Place the cursor within the **Register** method code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
          name: "PhotoApi",
          routeTemplate: "api/photos/{id}",
          defaults: new { controller = "PhotoApi", action = "GetPhotoById" },
          constraints: new { id = "[0-9]+" }
       );
```
4. Place the cursor at the end of the **PhotoApi** route code block you just added, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
          name: "PhotoTitleApi",
          routeTemplate: "api/photos/{title}",
          defaults: new { controller = "PhotoApi", action = "GetPhotoByTitle" }
       );
```
5. Place the cursor at the end of the **PhotoTitleApi** route code block you just added, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
          name: "PhotosApi",
          routeTemplate: "api/photos",
          defaults: new { controller = "PhotoApi", action = "GetAllPhotos" }
       );
```
6. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Configure media-type formatters.

1. In the WebApiConfig.cs code window, place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       var json = config.Formatters.JsonFormatter;
```
2. Place the cursor at the end of the **json** variable code block you just added, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       json.SerializerSettings.PreserveReferencesHandling = Newtonsoft.Json.PreserveReferencesHandling.Objects;
```
3. Place the cursor at the end the code you just added, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       config.Formatters.Remove(config.Formatters.XmlFormatter);
```
4. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 4: Test the Web API with Internet Explorer.

1. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

    >**Note:** The Adventure Works Photo Sharing page is displayed.

2. In the Address bar of the Internet Explorer window, type **http://localhost:&lt;**_yourportnumber_**&gt;/api/photos/4**, and then press Enter.
3. In the lower section of the **Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, a message stating &quot;Do you want to open or save 4.json (712 KB) from localhost?&quot; displays. Click **Open** to view the file.
4. If the &quot;How do you want to open this type of file (.json)?&quot; message displays, click **More options**, and then click **Microsoft Visual Studio Version Selector**.
5. In the 4.json code window, note that the **Title** property is **Sample Photo 4**.
6. In the **4.json – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.
7. In the Address bar of the Internet Explorer window, type **http://localhost:&lt;**_yourportnumber&gt;_**/api/photos/sample photo 5**, and then press Enter.
8. In the lower section of the **Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, a message stating &quot;Do you want to open or save sample photo 5.json (750 KB) from localhost?&quot; displays. Click **Open** to view the file.
9. If the &quot;How do you want to open this type of file (.json)?&quot; message displays, click **Microsoft Visual Studio Version Selector**.
10. In the sample photo 5.json code window, note that the **Title** property is **Sample Photo 5**.
11. In the **sample photo 5.json – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.
12. In the Address bar of the Internet Explorer window, type **http://localhost:&lt;**_yourportnumber&gt;_**/api/photos**, and then press Enter.
13. In the lower section of the **Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, a message stating &quot;Do you want to open or save photos.json (15.0 MB) from localhost?&quot; displays. Click **Open** to view the file.
14. On the **EDIT** menu of the **photos.json – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Find and Replace**, and then click **Quick Find**.
15. In the **Search Item** box of the **Quick Find** dialog box, type **Sample Photo 9**, click the **Find Next** button, and then click the **Close** button.

    >**Note:** In the photos.json code window, note that Visual Studio locates the text, **Sample Photo 9**. This implies that the API has included this photo in the returned photos.

16. On the **EDIT** menu of the **photos.json – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Find and Replace**, and then click **Quick Find**.
17. In the **Search Item** box of the **Quick Find** dialog box, type **Sample Photo 13**, click the **Find Next** button, and then click the **Close** button.

    >**Note:** In the photos.json code window, note that Visual Studio locates the text, **Sample Photo 13**. This implies that the API has included this photo in the returned photos.

18. In the **photos.json – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.
19. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a simple Web API for an ASP.NET MVC 4 web application.

### Exercise 2: Using the Web API for a Bing Maps Display

#### Task 1: Create a new template view.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand **Views**, and then expand **Shared**.
2. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **Shared**, right-click **_MainLayout.cshtml**, and then click **Copy**.
3. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **Shared**, and then click **Paste**.
4. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **Shared**, right-click **Copy of _MainLayout.cshtml**, and then click **Rename**.
5. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **Copy of _MainLayout.cshtml** as **_MapLayout.cshtml**, and then press Enter.
6. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **_MapLayout.cshtml**.
7. In the _MapLayout.cshtml code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       <!DOCTYPE html>
```
8. Replace the located code with the following code.

  ```cs
       <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" 
       "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
```
9. In the _MapLayout.cshtml code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       <body>
```
10. Replace the located code with the following code.

  ```cs
        <body onload="GetMap();">
```
11. In the _MapLayout.cshtml code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
        <script src="http://ajax.aspnetcdn.com/ajax/jquery.ui/1.9.0/jquery-ui.min.js" 
        type="text/javascript"></script>
```
12. In the _MapLayout.cshtml code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       <script src="http://ajax.aspnetcdn.com/ajax/mvc/3.0/jquery.unobtrusive-ajax.js" 
       type="text/javascript"></script>
```
13. In the _MapLayout.cshtml code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        </head>
```
14. Place the cursor before the located code, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
        <script charset="UTF-8" type="text/javascript" 
        src="http://www.bing.com/api/maps/mapcontrol?branch=release"></script>
```
15. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Create a map action, a view, and a script file.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **Controllers**, double-click **PhotoController.cs**.
2. In the PhotoController.cs code window, place the cursor in the **PhotoController** class code block, but outside any action code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public ViewResult Map()
       {
       }
```
3. In the **Map** action code block you just created, type the following code.

  ```cs
       return View("Map");
```
4. In the PhotoController.cs code window, locate the following code, right-click the code, and then click **Add View**.

  ```cs
       public ViewResult Map()
```
5. In the **View name** box of the **Add View** dialog box, ensure that the text is **Map**, and then ensure that the **Create a Strongly-Typed View** check box is cleared.
6. In the **Add View** dialog box, ensure that the **Use a layout or master page** check box is selected, and then click the **Browse** button.
7. In the **Contents of folder** box of the **Select a Layout Page** dialog box, click **_MapLayout.cshtml**, and then click **OK**.
8. In the **Add View** dialog box, click **Add**.
9. In the Map.cshtml code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       <h2>Map</h2>
```
10. In the Map.cshtml code window, place the cursor outside the Razor code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        <script type="text/javascript">
        </script>
```
11. Place the cursor in the **SCRIPT** element, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        var webApiUrl = '@Url.Content("~/api/photos")';
```
12. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        var pictureUrl = '@Url.Action("GetImage", "Photo")/';
```
13. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        var displayUrl = '@Url.Action("Display", "Photo")/';
```
14. Place the cursor at the end of the **&lt;/script&gt;** tag, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        <script src="" type="text/javascript"></script>
```
15. Place the cursor in the empty **src** attribute you just created, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        @Url.Content("~/Scripts/MapDisplay.js")
```
16. Place the cursor at the end of the JavaScript code you just created, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        <div id="mapDiv" style="position: absolute; width: 650px; height: 400px;"></div>
```
17. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **Scripts**, point to **Add**, and then click **Existing Item**.
18. In the **Add Existing Item - PhotoSharingApplication** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod14\Labfiles\Bing Maps Script**, click **MapDisplay.js** and then click **Add**.
19. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **Mvc.sitemap**.
20. In the Mvc.sitemap code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        <mvcSiteMapNode title="Add a Photo" visibility="*" controller="Photo" action="Create" />
```
21. Place the cursor before the located code, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
        <mvcSiteMapNode title="Map" visibility="*" controller="Photo" action="Map" />
```
22. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Configure the Bing Maps Key

1. Switch to the Internet Explorer window.
2. In the Address bar, type **https://www.bingmapsportal.com**, and then click **Go to**.
3. On the **Home – Bing maps | Dev Center** page, click the **Sign in** link.
4. On the **Sign in** page, in the **Email or phone** text box, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_ and in the **Password** text box, type &lt;_Your Windows Live account password_&gt;.
5. On the **Sign in** page, select **Keep me signed in**, and then click **Sign in**.
6. On the **My account** menu, click **My Keys**.
7. In the lower section of the **Bing maps |Dev Center** page, select the key corresponding to **Photo Sharing Application**, right-click the key, and then click **Copy**.
8. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
9. In the **MapDisplay.js** file, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       Credentials:"{Your Bing Key}"
```
10. Delete the text **{Your Bing Key}**.
11. Place the cursor between the opening quotation mark and the closing quotation mark, and then on the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
12. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.
13. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
14. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works** page, click **Map**.

    >**Note:** On the **Map** page, the Bing Map AJAX control is displayed. However, there are no push pins on the map.

15. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 4: Obtain and display photos.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **Scripts**, double-click **MapDisplay.js**.
2. At the end of the file, insert the following code.

  ```cs
       function GetPhotos(serviceUrl) {
       }
```
3. In the **GetPhotos** function code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       $.support.cors = true;
```
4. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       $.ajax({
          url: serviceUrl,
          type: 'GET',
          dataType: 'json',
          success: DisplayPics,
          error: OnError
       });
```
5. Place the cursor at the end of the **GetPhotos** function code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       function DisplayPics(response) {
       }
```
6. In the **DisplayPics** function code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       var location;
       var pin;
```
7. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       $.each(response, function(index, photo) {
       });
```
8. In the **$.each** function code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       location = new Microsoft.Maps.Location(photo.Latitude, photo.Longitude);
```
9. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       pin = new Microsoft.Maps.Pushpin(location);
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        pin.Title = photo.Title;
        pin.ID = photo.PhotoID;
```
11. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        Microsoft.Maps.Events.addHandler(pin, 'click', DisplayInfoBox);
```
12. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        map.entities.push(pin);
```
13. Place the cursor at the end of the **DisplayPics** function code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        function OnError(response) {
        }
```
14. In the **OnError** function code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
        alert("Could not obtain the picture coordinates");
```
15. In the **GetMap** function code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        infobox.setMap(map);
```
16. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        GetPhotos(webApiUrl);
```
17. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 5: Test the Bing Maps control.

1. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.
2. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works** page, click **Map**.

    >**Note:** On the **Map** page, the Bing Map AJAX control is displayed along with push pins on the map.

3. On the **Map** page, click a pin of your choice.

    >**Note:** The info box appears, displaying the photo as a thumbnail with the title.

4. In the info box of the **Map** page, click the thumbnail.

    >**Note:** The web application redirects you to the **Display** view, which displays the full size photo. ** **

5. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **Close** button.
6. In the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click the **Close** button.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a template view to display a Bing Map AJAX control, and created a view and script file to display a Bing Map. You should have also used jQuery to call a Web API and obtain the details of photos. You should have then mashed up the data from a web API with Bing Maps data.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
