# Module 13: Using Windows Azure Web Services in ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

# Lab: Using Microsoft Azure Web Services in ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **75 minutes**

Before starting this lab, you need to perform the following steps:

1.	Ensure that you have cloned the 20486C directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles.  
2. Go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod11/Labfiles/PhotoSharingApplication_11_begin/PhotoSharingApplication**, and then copy the **web.config** file.  
3. Go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/PhotoSharingApplication_13_begin/PhotoSharingApplication**, and then paste the **web.config** file.  

### Exercise 1: Accessing Microsoft Azure and Bing Maps

#### Task 1: Install the Windows Azure SDK.

1. In the **File Explorer** window, go to **Allfiles/Mod13/LabfilesAzure SDK 3.0**.
2. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **MicrosoftAzureAuthoringTools-x64.msi** Windows Installer Package.
3. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
4. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
5. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **MicrosoftAzureComputeEmulator-x64.msi** application.
6. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
7. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
8. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **MicrosoftAzureLibsForNet-x64.msi** application.
9. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
10. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
11. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **MicrosoftAzureStorageEmulator.msi** application.
12. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
13. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
14. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **MicrosoftAzureStorageTools.msi** application.
15. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
16. After the installation completes, click **Finish**.
17. In the **File Explorer** window, double-click the **MicrosoftAzureTools.VS.140.msi** application.
18.	Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Install**.
19.	After the installation completes, click **Finish**.

#### Task 2: Create a Bing Maps developer account.

1. Switch to the **Internet Explorer** window.
2. In the Address bar, type **https://www.bingmapsportal.com**, and then click **Go to**.
3. On the **Home – Bing maps | Dev Center** page, click **Sign in**.
4. On the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page, click **Create one!**.
5. On the **Create an account page**, set the **User name** to **&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;**, set the **Password** to **&lt;Your Windows Live account password&gt;**, and then click **Create account**.
6. In case the email address has to be verified, verify the email.
7. Open a new **Internet Explorer** window.
8. In the Address bar of Internet Explorer, type **https://www.bingmapsportal.com**, and then click **Go to**.
9. On the **Home – Bing maps | Dev Center** page, click **Sign in**.
10. On the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page, in the **Email or phone** text box, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_ and in the **Password** text box, type &lt;_Your Windows Live account password_&gt;.
11. On the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page, select **Keep me signed in**, and then click **Sign in**.
12. In case the question **Do you want to use the account** **&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;** for your new Bing Maps account?appears on the page that opens, click **Yes**.
13. On the **Account details** page, in the **Account name** text box, type _&lt;Your account name&gt;_.
14. In the **Email Address** text box, type &lt;_Your email address_&gt;.
15. Select the **I agree to the Bing Maps Platform APIs Terms of Use (TOU)** check box, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 3: Create a Bing Maps key.

1. On the **My account** menu, click **My Keys**.
2.	Click **Click _here_ to create a new key**. 
3. In the **Application name** text box of the **Create key - Bing maps | Dev Center** page, type **Photo Sharing Application**, in the **Key Type** text box, ensure that the value is **Basic**, in the **Application type** text box, ensure that the value is **Public website**, and then click **Create**.

   >**Note:** On the **My Keys - Bing maps | Dev Center** page, the message, **Key created successfully** displays.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully registered an application to access the Bing Maps API.

### Exercise 2: Creating a WCF Service for Microsoft Azure

#### Task 1: Add a new Windows Azure Cloud Service project to the web application.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
2. In the **Libraries** window, go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/Starter/PhotoSharingApplication**, and then double-click **PhotoSharingApplication.sln**.
3. On the **BUILD** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click Build Solution.
4. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, point to **Add**, and then click **New Project**.
5. In the navigation pane of the **Add New Project** dialog box, under **Installed**, expand **Visual C#**, and then click **Cloud**.
6. In the **Add New Project** dialog box, click **Azure Cloud Service**, in the **Name** text box, type **LocationChecker**, and then click **OK**.
7. In the **Roles** box of the **New Windows Azure Cloud Service** dialog box, click **WCF Service Web Role**, click **Right Arrow**, and then click **OK**.
8. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **WCFServiceWebRole1**, and then click **Rename**.
9. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **WCFServiceWebRole1** as **LocationCheckerWebRole**, and then press Enter.
10. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **IService1.cs**, and then click **Rename**.
11. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **IService1.cs** as **ILocationCheckerService.cs**, and then press Enter.
12. In the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box, click **Yes**.
13. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **Service1.svc**, and then click **Rename**.
14. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, rename **Service1.svc** as **LocationCheckerService.svc**, and then press Enter.
15. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **LocationCheckerService.svc**, double-click **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs**.
16. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        public classService1 :ILocationCheckerService
```
17. In the located code, select the text **Service1**, right-click **Service1**, and then click **Rename**.
18. In the **New name** text box of the **Rename** dialog box, type **LocationCheckerService**, ensure that the **Preview changes** check box is selected, and then click **Apply**.
19. In the **Preview Changes – Rename** dialog box, click **Apply**.
20. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **LocationChecker**, double-click **ServiceDefinition.csdef**.
21. In the **ServiceDefinition.csdef** code window, locate the following code.

   ```cs
        <WebRole name="LocationCheckerWebRole" vmsize="Small">
```
22. In the **ServiceDefinition.csdef** code window, replace the located code with the following code.

  ```cs
        <WebRole name="LocationCheckerWebRole" vmsize="ExtraSmall">
```
23. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Micorosft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Create the Location Checker Service interface.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **LocationCheckerWebRole**, double-click **ILocationCheckerService.cs**
2. In the **ILocationCheckerService.cs** code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
        [OperationContract]
        string GetData(int value);
        [OperationContract]
        CompositeType GetDataUsingDataContract(CompositeType composite);
```
3. Place the cursor in the **ILocationCheckerService** interface code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       [OperationContract]
       string GetLocation(string address);
```
4. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Write the Location Checker service.

1. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       public string GetData(int value)
       {
          return string.Format("You entered: {0}", value);
       }
```
2. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code, select the code, and then press Delete.

  ```cs
       public CompositeType GetDataUsingDataContract(CompositeType composite)
       {
          if (composite == null)
          {
             throw new ArgumentNullException("composite");
          }
          if (composite.BoolValue)
          {
             composite.StringValue += "Suffix";
          }
          return composite;
       }
```
3. Place the cursor in the **LocationCheckerService** class code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public string GetLocation(string address)
       {
       }
```
4. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
5. In the **PhotoSharingApplication** window, go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/Service Code**, and then double-click **Geocoding Usings.txt**.
6. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Usings.txt - Notepad** window, click **Select All**.
7. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Usings.txt- Notepad** window, click **Copy**.
8. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
9. In the **LocationCheckerService.svc.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       using syste.Text;
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then click **Paste**.
11. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
12. In the **PhotoSharingApplication** window, go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/Service Code**, and then double-click **Geocoding Code.txt**.
13. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Code.txt - Notepad** window, click **Select All**.
14. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Code.txt - Notepad** window, click **Copy**.
15. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
16. Place the cursor at the beginning of the **GetLocation** method, and then press Enter.
17. On the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
18. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
19. In the **PhotoSharingApplication** window, go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/Service Code**, and then double-click **Geocoding Classes.txt**.
20. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Classes.txt - Notepad** window, click **Select All**.
21. On the **Edit** menu of the **Geocoding Classes.txt- Notepad** window, click **Copy**.
22. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
23. Place the cursor at the end of the **LocationCheckerService** class, and then press Enter.
24. On the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
25. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
26. In the lower section of the **Create Key - Bing maps |Dev Center** page, select the key corresponding to **Photo Sharing Application**, right-click the key, and then click **Copy**.
27. Switch to the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window.
28. In the **GetLocation** method of the **LocationCheckerService** class, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        string key = "";
```
29. Place the cursor within the key variable, and then on the **EDIT** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Paste**.
30. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 4: Publish the service in Microsoft Azure.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, collapse **LocationCheckerWebRole**, right-click **LocationChecker**, and then click **Package**.
2. In the **Service Configuration** box of the **Package Azure Application** dialog box, ensure that in **Service configuration**, the **Cloud** option is selected, in **Build Configuration**, select the **Debug** option, and then click **Package**.

   >**Note:** Visual Studio creates the **.cspkg** file and the **.cscfg** file for the service and displays them in the File Explorer window.

3. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
4. In the **Internet Explorer** window, click **New Tab**.
5. In the Address bar of the **Internet Explorer** window, type **portal.azure.com**, and then press **Enter**.
6. If a page appears, prompting you to enter your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

7. In the left pane of the **Microsoft Azure** window, click **New**, the select **Compute**, then select **Cloud service**.
8. In the **DNS name** text box of the **Cloud service (classic)** pane, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_ **LocationService**.
9. In the **Resource group** box, select **Main**.
10. In the **Location** box, click _&lt;Choose a location near you&gt;_, and then click **Create**.
11. Wait for deployment to finish, then on the left pane click **All resources**, then locateand click _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_ **LocationService**.
12. On the _&lt;Your Live Account Name&gt;_ **locationservice** page, click **Production slot** and change it to **Staging**.
13. Click **Upload**.
14. In the **DEPLOYMENT label** text box of the **Upload a package** dialog box, type **LocationChecker**, and then in the **Package/configuration location** radio button, click **FROM LOCAL**.
15. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/Starter/PhotoSharingApplication/LocationChecker/bin/Debug/app.publish**, click **LocationChecker.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.
16. In the **CONFIGURATION** box of the **Upload a package** dialog box, click **FROM LOCAL**.
17. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.
18. In the **Upload a package** dialog box, select the **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box, and then click **OK** (the V icon).

    >**Note:** It may take several minutes to fully create and deploy the service. Ensure the process is complete before you proceed to Exercise 3.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a WCF cloud service and published the service in Microsoft Azure.

### Exercise 3: Calling a Web Service from Controller Action

#### Task 1: Add a service reference to the Photo Sharing application.

1. On the taskbar, click the **Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
2. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, collapse **LocationChecker**, and then expand **PhotoSharingApplication**.
3. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under **PhotoSharingApplication**, right-click **References**, and then click **Add Service Reference**.
4. On the taskbar, point to the **Internet Explorer** icon, and then click the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window.
5. In the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window, click **DASHBOARD**.
6. In the **SITE URL** section of the **Cloud services – Microsoft Azure** window, click the link provided.
7. In the result window, click **LocationCheckerService.svc**.
8. In the Address bar of the result window, right-click the URL, and then click **Copy**.
9. Switch to **Microsoft Visual Studio**.
10. In the **Address** text box of the **Add Service Reference** dialog box, right-click anywhere, and then click **Paste**.
11. In the **Add Service Reference** dialog box, click **Go**.
12. In the **Namespace** text box of the **Add Service Reference** dialog box, type **GeocodeService**, and then click **OK**.
13. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, expand **Controllers**, and then double-click **PhotoController.cs**.
14. In the **PhotoController.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        using PhotoSharingApplication.Models;
```
15. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        using PhotoSharingApplication.GeocodeService;
```
16. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Call the WCF service from the photo create action.

1. In the **PhotoController.cs** code window, place the cursor at the end of the **PhotoController** class but outside any action code block, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       private string CheckLocation(string location)
       {
       }
```
2. In the **CheckLocation** method code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       LocationCheckerServiceClient client = null;
```
3. Place the cursor at the end of the **client** variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       string response = "";
```
4. Place the cursor at the end of the response variable code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       try
       {
       }
       catch (Exception e)
       {
       }
```
5. In the **try** code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       client = new LocationCheckerServiceClient();
```
6. Place the cursor at the end of the **client** variable you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       response = client.GetLocation(location);
```
7. In the **catch** code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       response = "Error: " + e.Message;
```
8. Place the cursor after the **catch** code block but in the **CheckLocation** method, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       return response;
```
9. In the **PhotoController.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       [Authorize]
       [HttpPost]
       public ActionResult Create(Photo photo, HttpPostedFileBase image)
       {
```
10. Place the cursor at the end of the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

        if (photo.Location != "")
        {
        }

11. In the **if** code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
        string stringLongLat = CheckLocation(photo.Location);
```
12. Place the cursor at the end of the code you just entered, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        if (stringLongLat.StartsWith("Success"))
        {
        }
```
13. In the **if** statement code block that you just created, type the following code.

  ```cs
        char[] splitChars = {':'};
```
14. Place the cursor at the end of the code that you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        string[] coordinates = stringLongLat.Split(splitChars);
```
15. Place the cursor at the end of the code that you just typed, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
        photo.Latitude = coordinates[1];
        photo.Longitude = coordinates[2];
```
   >**Note:** Remember that the array is zero-based.

16. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 3: Configure the Services Database connection string.

1. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
2. In the left pane of the **Microsoft Azure Portal** window, click **SQL Databases**.
3. In the **NAME** column of the **SQL Databases – Microsoft Azure** window, click **PhotoAppServices**.
4. In the result window, click **DASHBOARD**.
5. Under **quick glance**, click **Show connection strings**.
6. Select all the text in the **ADO.NET** box.
7. Right-click the selected code, and then click **Copy**.
8. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
9. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **web.config**.
10. In the **Web.config** code window, select the **connectionString** value for the **AzureAppServices** connection string.
11. Right-click the selected code, and then click **Paste**.
12. In the pasted content, locate the text **{your_password_here}**, and then replace it with **Pa$$w0rd**.
13. On the **FILE** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 4: Test the Location Checker service.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **PhotoSharingApplication**, and then click **Set as Startup Project**.
2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

    >**Note:** If you get an error while debugging, reopen the **PhotoSharingApplication.sln** file, and run the web application in debugging mode.

3. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works** page, click **Log In**.
4. In the **User name** text box of the Login page, type **David Johnson**, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd2**, and then click **Log In**.
5. On the **Welcome to Adventure Works** page, click **Add a Photo**.
6. In the **Title** text box of the **Create New Photo** page, type **Testing Locations**, and then in the **Picture** text box, click **Browse**.
7. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **Allfiles/20486C/Mod13/Labfiles/Sample Photos**, click **Beach.jpg**, and then click **Open**.
8. In the **Location** text box of the **Create New Photo** page, type **Florence, OR**, and then click **Create**.
9. On the **All Photos** page, click **Display** corresponding to the **Testing Locations** photo.
10. On the **Testing Locations** page, note that the **Latitude** and **Longitude** values are displayed.

    >**Note:** The latitude and longitude values are taken from the Location Checker WCF service.

11. In the **Internet Explorer** window, click **Close**.
12. In the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Close**.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully added a service reference for a Windows Azure WCF service to a .NET Framework application. Also, you should be able to call a WCF service from an MVC controller action.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
