# Module 2: Designing ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

# Lab: Designing ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **40 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

1. Ensure that you have cloned the 20486C directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles

### Exercise 1: Planning Model Classes

#### Task 1: Examine the initial investigation.

1. Go to **Allfiles\20486C\Mod02\Labfiles**, and then double-click **InitialInvestigation.docx**.
2. On the **View** tab of the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, in the **Show** group, ensure that the  **Navigation Pane** check box is selected.
3. In the Navigation pane, click **Introduction** to view the contents of the Introduction section.
4. In the Navigation pane, click **General Description of the Photo Sharing Application** to view the contents.
5. In the Navigation pane, click **Use Cases** to view the contents.
6. In the Navigation pane, under **Use Cases**, view all the Use Cases in the document.
7. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, review Figure 1: Use Case Summary.
8. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Plan the photo model class.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
2. In the **Allfiles\20486C\Mod02\Labfiles** window, double-click **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx**.
3. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Model section.
4. In the MVC Model section, locate the **Table 1: MVC Model** table.
5. In the first row of the **Model Class** column, type _&lt;Model class name1&gt;._
6. In the first row of the **Description** column, type _&lt;Description of the model class&gt;_.
7. In the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, in the first row of the **Properties** column, type _&lt;Property1&gt;_.
8. Add other properties to the model class.
9. In the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, in the first row of the **Data Types** column, type _&lt;Data type1&gt;_.
10. Add other data types corresponding to the photo properties.
11. In the **Model Class** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you have added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
12. In the **Description** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you have added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
13. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.
14. Open **Visio 2016**.
15. In the right pane of the **Visio 2016** window, click **Blank Drawing**.
16. In the **Blank Drawing** dialog box, click **Metric Units**, and then click  **Create**. 
17. In the **Shapes** pane of the **Drawing1 - Visio** window, click **More shapes**, click **Software and Databases**, click **Software**, and then click **UML Class**.
18. Drag a **Class** shape from the **Shapes** pane onto the drawing page.
19. On the drawing page, in the **ClassName** box of the **UML Class**, type _&lt;Model name1&gt;_.
20. In **members** section of the **UML class**, in the **memberName** box of the first row, type _&lt;Property1&gt;_: _&lt;Data type1&gt;_.
21. Fill properties and data types for all members. Add rows for additional members if needed.
22. On the Quick Access Toolbar of the **Drawing1 - Visio** window, click **Save**.
23. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles\20486C\Mod02\Labfiles**, in the **File name** box, type **PhotoSharingLDM**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Plan the comment model class.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** icon.
2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Model section.
3. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **Table 1: MVC Model** table.
4. In the second row of the **Model Class** column, type _&lt;Model name2&gt;_.
5. In the second row of the **Description** column, type _&lt;Description of the model&gt;_.
6. In the **Properties** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, add the properties corresponding to the model class you created.
7. In the **Data Types** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, add data types corresponding to the comment properties.
8. In the **Model Class** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

    >**Note:** The rows in the **Model Class** column should only be merged if you have created more than one property.

9. In the **Description** column, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

    >**Note:** The rows in the **Description** column should only be merged if you have created more than one property.

10. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.
11. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingLDM.vsdx - Visio** icon.
12. Drag a **Class** shape from the **Shapes** pane onto the drawing page.
13. On the drawing page, in the **ClassName** box of the **UML Class**, type _&lt;Model name2&gt;_.
14. In **members** section of the **UML class**, fill properties and data types for all members. Add rows for members if needed.
15. Drag an **Association** shape from the **Shapes** pane onto the drawing page.
16. On the drawing page of **PhotoSharingLDM.vsdx - Visio** window, move the first endpoint of the association to the first model, and then move the second endpoint of the association to the second model, so the association will connect the two model classes.
17. On the drawing page of **PhotoSharingLDM.vsdx - Visio** window, right-click the association, click **Show Multiplicity**, and then type the values.

       >**Note:** The values you choose should be determined by the number of photos that can be associated with a comment and the number of comments that can be associated with a photo.

18. On the Quick Access Toolbar of the **PhotoSharingLDM.vsd - Visio** window, click **Save**.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for a model, and configure the properties and data types of the model classes.

### Exercise 2: Planning Controllers

#### Task 1: Plan the photo controller.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** icon.
2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Controllers section.
3. In the **DetailedPlanning Document.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table.
4. In the first row of the **Controller** column, type _&lt;Controller1&gt;_.
5. In the first row of the **Action** column, type _&lt;Action1&gt;_.
6. Add other required actions for the controller for photos.
7. In the first row of the **Description** column, type _&lt;Description1&gt;._
8. Add other descriptions to the subsequent rows of the **Action** column.

    >**Note:** Describe when each action is run, what it does, and any views it returns.

9. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table, select all the rows adjacent to the **Action** column, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
10. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.

#### Task 2: Plan the comment controller.

1. In the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table, in the second row of the **Controller** column, type _&lt;Controller2&gt;_.

2. In the **Action** column, corresponding to _&lt;Controller2&gt;_, type _&lt;Action1&gt;_.
3. Add other required actions in the subsequent rows of the **Action** column.
4. In the **Description** column, type the description of the corresponding actions.
5. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table, select all the adjacent rows to the actions you planned, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
6. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for controllers and configure their properties and data types.

### Exercise 3: Planning Views

#### Task 1: Plan the single photo view.

1. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Views section, and then locate the **Table 3: MVC Views** table.
2. In the first row of the **Controller** column, type _&lt;Controller1&gt;_.
3. Add other required controllers to the **Table 3: MVC Views**.
4. In the first row of the **View** column, type _&lt;View1&gt;._
5. In the subsequent rows of the **View** column, add other required views corresponding to the controllers.
6. In the **Description** column, type the description of the corresponding views.
7. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 3: MVC Views** table, select all the rows adjacent to the actions you planned for _&lt;Controller1&gt;_, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
8. In the **Controller** column, merge the rows corresponding to the other controllers.
9. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.
10. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingLDM.vsdx - Visio** icon.
11. On the **File** tab of the **PhotoSharingLDM.vsdx - Visio** window, click the **New** tab.
12. In the Choose a Template section of the **New** tab, click **Wireframe diagram**.
13. In the **Wireframe diagram** dialog box, click **Metric Units**, and then click  **Create**. 
14. In the Shapes pane of the **Drawing2 - Visio** window, ensure **Dialogs** is selected.
15. In the **Dialogs** stencil, drag the **Application Form** shape to the drawing page.
16. On the drawing page, resize the new shape to fill most of the page.
17. In the **Application Form** shape, double-click **Application Title** , and then type the title you want to be displayed.
18. In the **Dialogs** stencil, drag the **Panel** shape to the **Application Form** shape, and drop it under the title.
19. Resize the panel to fill the width of the **Application Form** shape.
20. Resize the panel to the same height as the **Application Form** shape.
21. In the **Shapes** pane, click **Controls**.
22. In the **Controls** stencil, drag a **Hyperlink** shape to the panel.
23. In the **Hyperlinks** dialog box, click **Cancel**.
24. On the drawing page of the **Drawing2 - Visio** window, double-click **Hyperlink** , and then type **Home**.
25. Add links for **Gallery**, **Add a Photo**, and **Slideshow** on the panel.
26. In the **Shapes** pane, click **Dialogs**.
27. In the **Dialogs** stencil, drag a **Panel** shape to the **Application Form** shape, and drop the panel beneath the menu.
28. Resize the panel to display a large photo.
29. In the **Shapes** pane, click **Web and Media Icons**.
30. In the **Web and Media Icons** stencil, drag a **Photos** shape to the panel you created.

    >**Note:** Add other elements to the wireframe diagram that you feel are necessary based on your reading of the  **InitialInvestigation** document. Steps will vary, depending on the elements you feel are necessary. 

31. On the Quick Access Toolbar of the **Drawing2 - Visio** window, click **Save**.
32. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles\20486C\Mod02\Labfiles**, in the **File name** box, type **SinglePhotoWireframe**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 2: Plan the gallery view.

1. On the **File** tab of the **SinglePhotoWireframe.vsdx - Visio** window, click the **New** tab.
2. In the Choose a Template section of the **New** tab, click **Wireframe diagram**.
3. In the **Wireframe diagram** dialog box, click **Metric Units**, and then click  **Create**. 
4. In the **Shapes** pane of the **Drawing3 - Visio** window, ensure **Dialogs** is selected.
5. In the **Dialogs** stencil, drag an **Application Form** shape to the drawing page.
6. On the drawing page, resize the new shape to fill most of the page.
7. In the **Application Form** shape, double-click **Application Title**, and type the title you want to be displayed.
8. In the **Dialogs** stencil, drag the **Panel** shape to the **Application Form** shape, and drop it under the title.
9. Resize the panel to fill the width of the **Application Form** shape.
10. Resize the panel to be approximately the same height as the title.
11. In the **Shapes** pane, click **Controls**.
12. In the **Controls** stencil drag a **Hyperlink** shape to the panel.
13. In the **Hyperlinks** dialog box, click **Cancel**.
14. On the drawing page of the **Drawing3 - Microsoft Visio** window, double-click **Hyperlink**, and then type **Home**.
15. On the panel, add **Hyperlinks** with the following labels: **Gallery**, **Add a Photo**, and **Slideshow**.
16. In the **Shapes** pane, click **Dialogs (Metric)**.
17. In the **Dialogs (Metric)** stencil, drag a **Panel** shape to the **Application Form** shape, and drop the panel beneath the menu.
18. Resize the panel to display a thumbnail photo.
19. In the **Shapes** pane, click **Web and Media Icons (Metric)**.
20. In the **Web and Media Icons (Metric)** stencil, drag a **Photos** shape to the panel you created.

    >**Note:** You can add multiple panels to display many thumbnails in the Gallery view.

     >**Note:** Add other elements to the wireframe diagram that you feel are necessary based on your reading of the  **InitialInvestigation** document.

    >Steps will vary, depending on the elements you feel are necessary.

21. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.
22. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod02\Labfiles**, in the **File name** box, type **PhotoGalleryWireframe** , and then click **Save**.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will create proposals for views and their layouts.

### Exercise 4: Architecting an MVC Web Application

#### Task 1: Hosting options.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument(docx) - Microsoft Word** icon.

2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument(docx) - Microsoft Word** window, locate the Hosting Recommedations section, and then locate the Web Server section.
3. Under Web Server, type the recommended host and web server configuration **.**

#### Task 2: Choose a data store.

1. In the Database section of the **DetailedPlanningDocument(docx) - Microsoft Word** window, type the recommended database and server configuration.

2. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for hosting arrangements.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
