# Module 16: Deploying ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

# Lab: Deploying ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Virtual Machine: **20486B-SEA-DEV11**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa$$w0rd**

  >**Note** : In Hyper-V Manager, start the **MSL-TMG1** virtual machine if it is not already running.

### Exercise 1: Deploying a Web Application to Microsoft Azure

#### Task 1: Prepare the Photo Sharing application project for deployment.

1. In the result pane of the Hyper-V Manager console, in the **Name** list of the Virtual Machines area, right-click **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, and then click **Connect**.
2. To log on to **20486B-SEA-DEV11**, click the **Ctrl+Alt+Delete** button.
3. In the **User name** box, type **Admin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click the **Forward** button.
4. On the Windows 8 Start screen, click **Desktop**.
5. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
6. In the **Libraries** window, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod16\Labfiles\Starter\PhotoSharingApplication**, and then double-click **PhotoSharingApplication.sln**.
7. In the Solution Explorer pane of the PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio window, right-click **PhotoSharingApplication**, and then click **Properties**.
8. In the PhotoSharingApplicationcode window, ensure that the **Build** tab is selected.
9. In the **Configuration** box, click **Release**.
10. On the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.
11. In the Address bar of the Internet Explorer window, type **https://manage.windowsazure.com**, and then press Enter.
12. If a page appears, prompting you to enter your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

  >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials. ** **

13. In the left pane of the **Microsoft Azure** page, click **SQL Databases**.
14. In the **Name** column, click **PhotoSharingDB**.
15. On the **photosharingdb** page, click **DASHBOARD**.
16. In the quick glance section of the **photosharingdb** page, click **Show connection strings**.
17. In the **ADO.NET** box of the **Connection Strings** dialog box, select all the text, right-click the selected text, and then click **Copy**.
18. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
19. In the Solution Explorer pane, expand **PhotoSharingApplication**, and then click **Web.config**.
20. In the Web.config code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
        <add name="PhotoSharingDB" connectionString="Server=tcp:{Your Azure Database URL},1433;Database=PhotoSharingDB;User ID={Your ID Here};Password=Pa$$w0rd;Trusted\Connection=False;Encrypt=True;Connection Timeout=30;PersistSecurityInfo=true" providerName="System.Data.SqlClient" />
```
21. In the located code, select the contents of the **connectionString** attribute, right-click the selected text, and then click **Paste**.
22. Within the text you just pasted, select the following text.

  ```cs
		{your\_password\_here}
```
23. Replace the selected text with the word, **Pa$$w0rd**.
24. On the taskbar, click the **SQL Databases – Microsoft Azure – Windows Internet Explorer** icon.
25. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **New Tab** button.
26. In the Address bar of the Internet Explorer window, type **https://www.bingmapsportal.com**, and then click the **Go to** button.
27. On the **Home – Bing Maps | Dev Center** page, click the **Sign In** link.
28. If the **Sign in to your Microsoft account** page appears, in the Microsoft account box, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account name&gt;_, in the **Password** box, type _&lt;Your Windows Live account password&gt;_, and then click Sign in.
29. In the left pane of the **Bing Maps | Dev Center** page, under My Account, click the **My Keys** link.
30. In the My Keys section of the **Bing Maps | Dev Center** page, select the key corresponding to **Photo Sharing Application**, right-click the key, and then click **Copy**.
31. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
32. In the Solution Explorer pane of the PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio window, expand Scripts, and then click **MapDisplay.js**.
33. In the MapDisplay.js code window, locate the following code, right-click the selected code, and then click Paste.

  ```cs
		{Your Bing Key}
```
34. On the **FILE** menu of the PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio window, click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Create a new web app in Microsoft Azure.

1. On the taskbar, point to the **Internet Explorer** icon, and then click the **SQL Databases – Microsoft Azure – Windows Internet Explorer** icon.

2. In the **Connection Strings** dialog box, click **Close**.
3. In the left pane of the **Microsoft Azure** page, click the **WEB APPS** icon.
4. In the lower-left pane of the **Microsoft Azure** page, click **New**, and then click **Custom Create**.
5. In the **URL** box of the **Create Web App** dialog box, type _&lt;your username&gt;_ **PhotoSharing**.
6. From the APP SERVICE PLAN drop-down list on **the Create Web App** page, select **Create new App Service plan**, and then in the **REGION** box, click _&lt;A region near you&gt;_..
7. In the **DATABASE** box, click **PhotoSharingDB**.
8. In the **DB CONNECTION STRING NAME** box, type **PhotoSharingDB**.
9. In the **DB USER** box, type _&lt;your first name&gt;_.
10. In the **PASSWORD** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**, and then click the **Complete** icon.

  >**Note:** Microsoft Azure creates the new web application. You need to upload the Photo Sharing application project to this web application. 

#### Task 3: Deploy the Photo Sharing application.

1. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, in the **Name** column, click _&lt;your username&gt;_ **PhotoSharing**, and then click **DASHBOARD**.

2. In the quick glance section of the _&lt;your username&gt;_ **PhotoSharing** page, click **Download the publish profile**.
3. In the Navigation bar, click **Save**, and then click the **Close** button.
4. On the taskbar, click the **PhotoSharingApplication – Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
5. In the Solution Explorer pane, right-click **PhotoSharingApplication**, and then click **Publish**.
6. On the **Profile** page of the Publish Web wizard, in the **Select or import a publish profile** box, click **Import**, and then click Browse.
7. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click _&lt;your username&gt;_ **PhotoSharing.azurewebsites.net.PublishSettings**, and then click **Open**.
8. In the **Import Publish Profile** dialog box, click **OK**.
9. On the **Connection** page, click **Validate Connection**, and then click **Next**.
10. If the **Certification Error** dialog box appears, click **Accept**.
11. On the **Preview** page, click **Start Preview**.

  >**Note:** The files that require changes are displayed.

12. On the **Publish** page, click **Publish**.

  >**Note:** Visual Studio publishes the Photo Sharing web application to Microsoft Azure. This process may take several minutes. When the process is complete, a new tab in Windows Internet Explorer displays the Photo Sharing home page. 

  >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to prepare an ASP.NET MVC web application for production deployment, create a web application in Microsoft Azure, and deploy an MVC web application to Microsoft Azure.

### Exercise 2: Testing the Completed Application

#### Task 1: Add a photo and a comment.

1. On the **Welcome to Adventures Works Photo Sharing** page, click the **Log In** link.

2. In the **User name** box of the **Login** page, type **David Johnson**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd2**, and then click **Log in**.
3. On the **Adventure Works Photo Sharing** page, click **Add a Photo**.
4. In the **Title** box, type **Test New Photo**, and then click **Browse**.
5. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, navigate to **Allfiles(D):\Mod16\Labfiles\Sample Photos**, click **track.JPG**, and then click **Open**.
6. In the **Description** box, type **This is the first photo added to the deployed web application**, and then click **Create**.
7. On the **All Photos** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to **Test New Photo**.
8. On the **Test News Photo** page, note that the metadata you entered is displayed correctly.
9. In the **Subject** box of the Comments section,type **Functionality Check**.
10. In the **Body** box, type **The photo metadata is displayed correctly**, and then click **Create**.

  >**Note:** The new comment is displayed on the website. 

#### Task 2: Use the slideshow and favorites options.

1. On the **Test New Photo** page, click **Slideshow**, and then view a slideshow of the images.

  >**Note:** The slideshow displays all the photos in the web application and includes the faded transition between photos and the jQueryUI progress bar widget. 

2. On the **Slide Show** page, click **All Photos**.
3. On the **All Photos** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to **Sample Photo 1**.
4. On the **Sample Photo 1** page, click the **Add this photo to your favorites** link.
5. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **Back** button.
6. On the **All Photos** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to **Sample Photo 2**.
7. On the **Sample Photo 2** page, click the **Add this photo to your favorites** link.
8. In the Internet Explorer window, click the **Back** button.
9. On the **All Photos** page, click the **Display** link corresponding to **Sample Photo 3**.
10. On the **Sample Photo 3** page, click the **Add this photo to your favorites** link.
11. On the **Sample Photo 3** page, click the **Favorite Photos** link, and then view a slideshow of the images that you added to the favorites list.

  >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to confirm that all the functionalities that you built in the Photo Sharing application run correctly in the Microsoft Azure deployment.
  
©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
